Next, let's see how amendments affect the invoicing process.
Specifically, let's take a look at rebookings and cancelations.
Let's go back and look at the overview of the invoicing process again.
In this scenario, the invoice was already processed
and payment was already done.
Let's assume that after the initial invoice was paid,
a rebooking on the ticket was done.
Under normal circumstances, the rebooking would incur a rebooking fee.
In turn, the Airlines Partners will bill IOM again for the extra fees.
And once again, this billing will be in the form
of Invoices which are to be sent directly to AIS.
AIS will then process the Invoice containing the Rebooking Fee in PRISM.
Yet, hold on a minute, there seems to be a problem.
Unfortunately, at this point, AIS will not be able
to process the Invoice for the rebooking fees.
This is because the Purchase Order in PRISM currently doesn't have
information regarding the rebooking fees amendment.
In order to update the Purchase Order information,
action must first be done on the operations side of the process.
The operations personnel would take the rebooking information to iGATOR
in order to update and amend the TOR.
Amending the TOR would also consequently update
the Purchase Order in PRISM, automatically.
With the purchase order finally update, AIS now has authorization
to go ahead with processing the rebooking fee.
With the invoice processed in PRISM by AIS,
treasury can go ahead with the payment.
Now let's see what happens if a ticket is cancelled instead.
When a ticket is cancelled, the very first difference is that instead of an Invoice,
the Airlines sends a Credit Note instead.
On the operations' side, the OPS personnel would also
update the iGATOR information to include the cancellation amendment.
Following this, the Purchase Order in PRISM will also be updated automatically
to also include the refund amendment.
With the Credit Note on hand and the Purchase Order
updated with the refund amendment,
AIS will then proceed with processing the documents in PRISM.
However, since this is a credit note, does this mean that the initial payment
we did for the invoice be returned to us by the Airlines?
No, not at all. Here's what happens instead.
First, it is important to understand that Treasury also uses PRISM
to transact with the Airlines Partners.
Specifically, whatever invoices are processed by AIS
will reflect in the records of Treasury.
And whenever treasury schedules a remittance,
all invoices within their records will be paid accordingly.
This is normally done via Bank Transfer.
Going back, how about when Credit Notes are processed?
When credit notes are processed by AIS,
the Treasury records are also updated to show the credit note balances.
However, Treasury cannot remit this to the airlines
because technically, the Airlines owes IOM for these refunds.
What happens instead is that the credit balance
is deducted from future invoice payments.
The balance of credit notes will reduce the total balance of invoices.
Then, the remaining invoice balance will be remitted to the Airlines accordingly.